---
title: "Support QBFT for Besu"
author: "SettleMint"
date: 2024-08-29
---

## Support QBFT for Besu

![Changelog Image](./assets/support-qbft-for-besu.png)

QBFT (Quorum Byzantine Fault Tolerance) is the latest consensus algorithm now
available in Hyperledger Besu on the SettleMint platform. This
proof-of-authority consensus mechanism is designed to provide enhanced security,
scalability, and performance for enterprise blockchain networks. QBFT ensures
that all participating nodes in the network agree on the state of the
blockchain, even in the presence of potentially malicious actors or network
failures. By utilizing a leader-based system with rotating block proposers, QBFT
maintains network integrity while allowing for efficient transaction processing.

Compared to its predecessor, IBFTv2, QBFT offers several significant
improvements. First and foremost, QBFT provides immediate transaction finality,
meaning that once a block is added to the chain, it's considered final and
cannot be reversed. This feature is particularly crucial for financial
applications where transaction certainty is paramount. Additionally, QBFT boasts
enhanced performance metrics, with faster block times and higher transaction
throughput. The algorithm also incorporates improved security measures,
including protection against certain types of attacks that could potentially
compromise IBFTv2 networks. These enhancements make QBFT a more robust and
efficient choice for enterprise-grade blockchain deployments.

We're excited to announce that QBFT is now the default consensus algorithm for
all new Hyperledger Besu networks deployed on the SettleMint platform. This
means that users can immediately take advantage of QBFT's benefits when
launching their blockchain projects.
