---
title: "Portfolio manager"
description: Manage your assets, as an indivudal user or as an admin/treasury
---

The dashboard section provides a high-level overview of the user's asset
holdings and current portfolio valuation. It shows the total value of all assets
in the wallet, typically denominated in EUR, calculated using the real-time
balances and latest token pricing data. A line chart allows users to visualize
how the portfolioâ€™s value has changed over time.

Users can switch between three chart modes. The total value view displays the
entire portfolio's historical valuation. The stacked by asset type view breaks
down the value by token categories such as equity and deposit. The compare asset
types view plots each category on separate lines to allow performance
comparisons. The dashboard also includes a date range selector for
period-specific analysis and a transfer button to initiate outbound token
transfers quickly.

## My assets

![My assets](../../../img/application-kits/my-assets.png)

The my assets section displays a detailed breakdown of tokens held in the
wallet. This includes both visual and tabular representations. A donut chart on
the left shows asset allocation by type, enabling users to analyze
diversification across different token categories. Each token is listed with its
name, symbol, classification (e.g. deposit, equity), and available balance.

A transaction chart is shown alongside the table, which displays the number of
token operations performed over time. This helps identify active versus dormant
tokens. The asset list also includes filtering options, data export features,
and a details button for each token entry. These details can be used for further
inspection or reporting.

## My activity

The my activity section presents a historical record of on-chain actions
associated with the user's wallet. It is divided into two tabs. The recent
transactions tab lists blockchain transactions that invoked smart contract
functions, such as mint, burn, and transfer. The all events tab includes a
broader set of events including role assignments and collateral updates.

Each activity entry includes the timestamp, the token involved, the type of
event, and the initiating wallet address. A details button opens metadata
associated with the action, including any additional contract-level information.
Filters are available for narrowing the list, and users can export all activity
data in CSV or Excel formats for audits or compliance purposes.

## My contacts

The my contacts section allows users to maintain a personal address book for
frequently used wallet addresses. This helps prevent errors during manual input
and speeds up the token transfer process. A form is provided to save new
contacts, where users can enter the destination wallet address along with a
first and last name.

Saved contacts are displayed in a searchable table and can be selected directly
during transfers. This feature is particularly useful for investors or operators
who regularly send tokens to the same set of recipients.

## Transfer

The transfer functionality enables users to move tokens to external wallets
directly through the platform. Users can select the token they want to transfer,
specify the destination address either manually or by selecting from contacts,
and enter the amount to transfer.

Real-time input validation checks the token balance and ensures the address
format is correct. Upon confirmation, the transfer is submitted to the
blockchain, and its outcome is recorded in the activity log.
