---
title: "User management"
description: Getting started with Application Kit
---

![Users list](../../../img/application-kits/user-list.png)

The user profile section within the asset tokenization kit serves as a
centralized and dynamic control panel for managing individual user accounts,
identities, and on-chain activities. It is designed to give platform
administrators full visibility into each user’s lifecycle, from account creation
and wallet assignment to asset ownership and blockchain interactions enabling
efficient user governance, compliance enforcement, and operational insight.

<br></br>

## User creation

User creation happens via the signup form on the login page. 
<br></br>
Upon user onboarding, the system automatically generates and assigns a unique
blockchain wallet address to the user. This wallet becomes the user’s on-chain
identity and is securely linked to their profile for executing token-related
operations such as asset issuance, transfers, minting, and participation in
permissioned flows. The wallet address is displayed in truncated format for
readability and includes quick copy functionality for administrative
convenience.

<br></br>

The profile interface is divided into multiple functional tabs such as Details,
Holdings, Latest Events, and Permissions, each providing focused data views and
administrative controls.

## User details

The Details tab displays a comprehensive snapshot of the user’s identity and
account state. It includes the user’s display name, email address, wallet
address, account status (e.g., active or banned), and KYC verification status.
It also logs platform activity details such as the date of account creation,
last login timestamp, and most recent interaction. Administrators can view
real-time operational metrics, including the number of tokenized assets supplied
by the user and the total number of transactions performed. This data is
critical for tracking user engagement, identifying high-value users, and
ensuring active participation in the tokenization ecosystem.
<br></br>
To complement the raw data, the interface incorporates data visualizations that
provide meaningful insights into user activity and asset allocation. The Asset
Distribution chart displays a visual breakdown of the user’s holdings by asset
class such as bonds and deposits, offering a portfolio-level perspective. The
Transactions Volume per Day graph highlights daily activity over the past month,
capturing transaction spikes and behavioral trends, while the Transactions
Volume per Month chart offers a longitudinal view of user interaction across the
year. These charts assist in behavioral analysis and help identify users with
consistent platform engagement versus those with sporadic activity.

## Role management and KYC

Administrative controls are accessible through the Edit User dropdown. This
includes the ability to update the user’s role via a dedicated interface where
platform roles User, Issuer, or Admin, can be reassigned based on functional
requirements or access privileges. A separate confirmation dialog allows KYC
verification to be completed manually, typically after the necessary identity
documents have been reviewed by the compliance team. These capabilities ensure
the platform adheres to both role-based access control and regulatory compliance
mandates.

## User holdings

![Users list](../../../img/application-kits/user-holding.png)

The Holdings tab provides a ledger-like view of all assets linked to the user’s
wallet. It lists each asset’s name, token symbol, asset type (bond, deposit,
etc.), balance, holder type (creator/owner), operational status, and the last
recorded activity. This section is especially important for financial
administrators or asset managers who need to assess the user’s exposure, asset
diversity, and the lifecycle stage of each instrument under their control.

## Events audit trail

![Users events](../../../img/application-kits/user-event-logs.png)

The Latest Events tab functions as a real-time audit trail of all blockchain
events associated with the user. Each entry is timestamped and includes the
asset name, event type (such as minting, creation, or permission grants), and
the sender identity. This detailed ledger helps in tracking operational changes,
validating ownership claims, monitoring permission shifts, and performing
forensic analysis in the event of disputes or compliance inquiries.

