---
title: Terms of Service
---

SettleMint Platform -- Terms of Service

DISCLAIMER: Please read these Terms of Service carefully before using the
SettleMint Platform (as defined below). By using the platform, you agree that
your use of the SettleMint Platform shall be governed by these Terms of Service.

Version 2.0 -- October 15, 2021

If you have any questions about the SettleMint Platform or these Terms of
Service, please contact us at hello@settlemint.com.

The SettleMint Platform (as defined herafter) is operated and managed by
SettleMint, a limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap) having its
registered office at 7Tuinen, Building B, Arnould Nobelstraat 38, 3000 Leuven
(Belgium) and registered with the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises (Kruispuntbank
van Ondernemingen) under company number 0661.674.810 (RLE Leuven) ("SettleMint"
or "we").

These terms of service (the "Terms of Service") describe the terms and
conditions under which user(s) ("User(s)" or "you") can access and use the
SettleMint Platform) except when other contractual arrangements are expressly
made between SettleMint and User. The general terms and conditions of the User
are not applicable and are therefore expressly excluded, even if such general
terms and conditions would contain a similar clause. In the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of these Terms of Service and
the provisions of any contractual arrangements between SettleMint and User, the
provisions of the latter shall prevail.

SettleMint and the User are hereinafter jointly referred to as "Parties" and
each individually as a "Party".

## 1. DESCRIPTION OF THE SettleMint PLATFORM

The SettleMint Platform is a cloud-based blockchain application building,
integration and hosting platform allowing developers to build and integrate
blockchain applications available at https://console.settlemint.com (the
"Platform").

## 2. APPLICABILITY

2.1. The access and use of the Platform is subject to acceptance without
modification of all terms and conditions as contained in these Terms of Service.

2.2. By clicking the "I agree" button, you engage in our service and acknowledge
and agree that your use of the Platform is exclusively governed by these Terms
of Service. If you do not agree to any provision of these Terms of Service, you
may not access and use the Platform in any manner, even if you already have an
Account.

2.3. In the event the Platform uses services or components (which may include
open source software) of third parties or provides access to any third party
websites, services and applications ("Third Party Services"), these Terms of
Service will not apply to these Third Party Services and the terms of service,
license agreements and/or privacy policies of those third parties will govern
your use of the Third Party Services. You shall be notified if and when such
third party terms of service, license agreements and/or privacy policies are
applicable. By accessing such third party service, you agree to comply with the
applicable terms and you acknowledge that you are the sole party to such terms.
SettleMint cannot be held liable in any way with regard to the use of the Third
Party Services and the content of such third parties' terms, license agreements
or privacy policy.

2.4. We reserve the right at any time, and from time to time, with or without
cause to:

- amend these Terms of Service;
- change the Platform, including, adding, eliminating or discontinuing,
  temporarily or permanently any tool, service or other feature of the Platform
  without any liability against the User or any third parties; or
- deny or terminate, in part, temporarily or permanently, your use of and/or
  access to the Platform as set forth herein. Any such amendments or changes
  made will be effective immediately upon SettleMint making such changes
  available in the Platform or otherwise providing notice thereof. You agree
  that your continued use of the Platform after such changes constitutes your
  acceptance of such changes.

## 3. USE OF THE PLATFORM

3.1. You are responsible for providing at your own expense, all equipment
necessary to connect to, access and otherwise use the Platform, including but
not limited to modems, hardware, server, operating system, software and internet
access (the "Equipment"). You are responsible for ensuring that such Equipment
is compatible with the Platform and complies with all minimum system
requirements as set out on the webpage. You will also be responsible for
maintaining the security of the Equipment. SettleMint will not be liable for any
loss or damage arising from your failure to comply with the above requirements.

3.2. In order to access the Platform's app creation and management tools you
will be required to create an account providing you access to the Platform (the
"Account") and provide certain registration information. Every individual with
such access Account is a "Direct User" (as opposed to "End Users" who are
individuals invited by User to use the SettleMint Platform Apps created in the
Platform. When creating your Account, you agree (i) to provide accurate,
truthful, current and complete information and (ii) to maintain and promptly
update your Account information. SettleMint reserves the right to suspend or
terminate the Account of anyone who provides inaccurate, untrue, or incomplete
information or who fails to comply with the account registration requirements.
You shall be solely responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security
of your Account login information such as your password and shall be fully
responsible for all activities that occur under your Account. You agree to
immediately notify SettleMint of any unauthorized use, or suspected unauthorized
use of your Account or any other breach of security.

3.3. During the Term, SettleMint may, in its sole discretion, provide you with
certain updates of the Platform.

## 4. ACCES TO THE PLATFORM

### 4.1. License by SettleMint

4.1.1. During the Term and subject to these Terms of Service and to the timely
payment of the Fees, SettleMint grants you a non-exclusive, personal,
restricted, revocable and subject to the conditions set forth in section 4.1.7.
transferable and sub-licensable license to access and use the functionality of
the Platform, including updates, solely to develop, use and host a blockchain
application that you make available to End Users (a "SettleMint Platform App")
(the "License").

4.1.2. Term and Renewal. Your initial license term is of one year and will
automatically renew at the end of the license term.

4.1.3. Notice of Non-Renewal. To prevent renewal of your license, you must give
a written notice of non-renewal at least 60 days before the end of the license
term.

4.1.4. Early Cancellation. You may choose to cancel your license early at your
convenience provided that we will not provide any refunds of prepaid fees or
unused license Fees, and you will promptly pay all unpaid fees due through the
end of the license Term.

4.1.5. Free Trial. If you register for a free trial, we will make the applicable
license available to you on a trial basis free of charge until the earlier of
(a) the end of the free trial period (if not terminated earlier) or (b) the
start date of your paid license. Unless you purchase a license before the end of
the free trial, all your data may be permanently deleted at the end of the
trial, and we will not recover it. If we include additional terms and conditions
on the trial registration web page, those will apply as well.

4.1.6. You are not allowed to use the Platform in a manner not authorized by
SettleMint. You shall use the Platform solely in full compliance with (i) these
Terms of Service; (ii) any additional instructions or policies issued by
SettleMint, including, but not limited to, those posted within the Platform and
(iii) any applicable legislation, rules or regulations.

4.1.7. Provided you are offering the Platform exclusively as an integrated
solution for your own use and for your proper commercial purposes to offer your
End Users a SettleMint Platform App in your own name and for your proper
account, the License set forth herein is transferable and sub-licensable for
purposes of integration only and subject to the restrictions set out in section
4.2.

### 4.2. Restrictions

You agree to use the Platform only for its intended use as set forth in these
Terms of Service. Within the limits of the applicable law, you are not permitted
to (or allow any other third party to) (i) access the Platform functionalities
by any other means other than through the interface and Account that is provided
to you by SettleMint (ii) copy, adapt, alter, translate or modify in any manner
the Platform or underlying software; (iii), lease, rent, loan, distribute, or
otherwise transfer the Platform to any third party; (iv) decompile, reverse
engineer, disassemble, or otherwise derive or determine or attempt to derive or
determine the software code (or the underlying ideas, algorithms, structure or
organization) of the Platform, except and only to the extent that such activity
is expressly permitted by applicable law notwithstanding this limitation; (v)
gain unauthorized access to accounts of other Users or use the Platform to
conduct or promote any illegal activities; (vi) use the Platform to generate
unsolicited email advertisements or spam; (vii) impersonate any person or
entity, or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or entity;
(viii) use any high volume automatic, electronic or manual process to access,
search or harvest information from the Platform (including without limitation
robots, spiders or scripts); (ix) alter, remove, or obscure any copyright
notice, digital watermarks, proprietary legends or other notice included in the
Platform; (x) intentionally distribute any worms, Trojan horses, corrupted
files, or other items of a destructive or deceptive nature (xi) use the Platform
for any unlawful, invasive, infringing, defamatory or fraudulent purpose; or
(xii) remove or in any manner circumvent any technical or other protective
measures in the Platform. Except as expressly set forth herein, no express or
implied license or any rights of any kind are granted to you regarding the
Platform, including but not limited to any right to obtain possession of any
source code, data or other technical material relating to the Platform.

### 4.3. License by User

By uploading, creating or otherwise sharing data on or through the Platform, you
grant SettleMint a non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide, sublicensable,
transferable, license to use, copy, store, modify, transmit and display such
data and documents uploaded by you (the "User Data"), to the extent necessary
and always in compliance with the provisions set forth in Article 12 of these
Terms of Service. To provide and maintain the Platform, SettleMint reserves the
right, but is not obliged, to review and remove any User Data which is deemed to
be in violation with the provisions of these Terms of Service or is deemed
inappropriate in accordance with any rights of third parties or any applicable
legislation or regulation.

## 5. OWNERSHIP

5.1. As between the User and SettleMint, the Platform and all Intellectual
Property Rights pertaining thereto, are the exclusive property of SettleMint
and/or its licensors. For the purpose of this Agreement, "Intellectual Property
Rights" means any and all now known or hereafter existing (a) rights associated
with works of authorship, including copyrights, and moral rights, (b) trademark
or service mark rights, (c) trade secret rights, know-how, (d) patents, patent
rights, and industrial property rights, (e) layout design rights, design rights
(f) semi-conductor topography rights (g) rights on trade-, brand- , business-
and domain names, (h) database rights, and any other industrial or intellectual
proprietary rights or similar right (whether registered or unregistered), and
(i) all registrations, applications for registration, renewals, extensions,
divisions, improvements or reissues relating to any of these rights and the
right to apply for, maintain and enforce any of the preceding items, in each
case in any jurisdiction throughout the world.

5.2. All rights, including Intellectual Property Rights, titles and interests in
and to the Platform or any part thereof not expressly granted to the User by
these Terms of Service are reserved by SettleMint and its licensors. Except as
expressly set forth herein, no express or implied license or right of any kind
is granted to the User regarding the Platform, including any right to obtain
possession of any software code, data or other technical material related to the
Platform.

5.3. Feedback. If you provide SettleMint with any feedback or suggestions
regarding the Sites or Services ("Feedback"), you hereby assign to SettleMint
all rights in such Feedback and agree that SettleMint shall have the right to
use and fully exploit such Feedback and related information in any manner it
deems appropriate. SettleMint will treat any Feedback you provide to SettleMint
as non-confidential and non-proprietary. You agree that you will not submit to
SettleMint any information or ideas that you consider to be confidential or
proprietary.

## 6. SUSPENSION FOR BREACH

If SettleMint becomes aware or suspects, in its sole discretion, any violation
by you of these Terms of Service, or any other instructions, guidelines or
policies issued by SettleMint, then SettleMint may suspend or limit your access
to the Platform. The duration of any suspension will be until you have cured the
breach which caused such suspension or limitation, except when such breach is
incurable.

## 7. SUPPORT

In case you need technical support, you can contact SettleMint on the following
Email address support@settlemint.com.

## 8. PAYMENT

8.1. In consideration for the License and the access to and use of the Platform
as set out in these Terms of Service, SettleMint will charge the usage fees as
displayed on the Platform.

8.2. All payments for the use of the Platform can be made by credit card or wire
transfer (upon approval by the credit committee). SettleMint will only process
card transactions that have been authorized by the applicable network or card
issuer. Users shall authorize their banks to hold, receive, disburse and settle
funds on their behalf, including generating a paper draft or electronic funds
transfer to process each payment transaction initiated by the User and relating
to the use of the Platform. Subject to these Terms of Service, Users shall also
authorize their banks to debit or credit any payment card or other payment
method accepted by SettleMint.

8.3. If payments are made by credit card, the User shall be solely responsible
for the security of its data (including but not limited to the information
associated with a payment card, such as card holder, account number, expiration
date and CVC (the "Cardholder Data")) in its possession or control. Users agree
to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating to the
collection, security and dissemination of any personal, financial or transaction
information. Users agree to notify SettleMint immediately if they provide any
third party with access (or otherwise permit, authorize, or enable such third
party's access) to any Cardholder Data.

8.4. If payments are settled via wire transfer, the User should pay the invoices
within 30 days of issuance. For later payment, interest charges of 1,5% per
month or the highest permissible rate applicable by law will be charged. Under
no circumstances will SettleMint refund the usage fees.

YOU MUST PROVIDE CURRENT, COMPLETE AND ACCURATE INFORMATION FOR YOUR BILLING
ACCOUNT. YOU MUST PROMPTLY UPDATE ALL INFORMATION TO KEEP YOUR BILLING ACCOUNT
CURRENT, COMPLETE AND ACCURATE (SUCH AS A CHANGE IN BILLING ADDRESS, CREDIT CARD
NUMBER, OR CREDIT CARD EXPIRATION DATE), AND YOU MUST PROMPTLY NOTIFY US OR OUR
PAYMENT PROCESSORS IF YOUR PAYMENT METHOD IS CANCELED (E.G., FOR LOSS OR THEFT)
OR IF YOU BECOME AWARE OF A POTENTIAL BREACH OF SECURITY, SUCH AS THE
UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OR USE OF YOUR USER NAME OR PASSWORD. CHANGES TO SUCH
INFORMATION CAN BE MADE AT billing@settlemint.com

## 9. LIABILITY

9.1. To the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, SettleMint shall only
be liable for personal injury or any damages resulting from (i) its gross
negligence; (ii) its willful misconduct or (iii) any fraud committed by
SettleMint.

9.2. To the extent permitted under applicable law, SettleMint shall not be
liable to the User or any third party, for any special, indirect, exemplary,
punitive, incidental or consequential damages of any nature including, but not
limited to damages or costs due to loss of profits, data, revenue, goodwill,
production of use, procurement of substitute services, or property damage
arising out of or in connection with the Platform under these Terms of Service,
including but not limited to any miscalculations, or the use, misuse, or
inability to access or use the Platform, regardless of the cause of action or
the theory of liability, whether in tort, contract, or otherwise, even if
SettleMint has been notified of the likelihood of such damages. The limitation
in this section 9.2. shall not apply to the obligations of SettleMint under
section 11 ("Indemnification").

9.3. You agree that SettleMint can only be held liable as per the terms of this
section 9 to the extent damages suffered by you are directly attributable to
SettleMint. You further agree that SettleMint is only liable to you directly,
and not to the End Users. For the avoidance of doubt, SettleMint shall not be
liable for any claims resulting from (i) your or any third party's unauthorized
use of the Platform, (ii) your or any third party's use of the SettleMint
Platform Apps, (iii) Third Parties Services, (iv) your failure to use the most
recent version of the Platform made available to you or your failure to
integrate or install any corrections to the Platform issued by SettleMint, or
(v) your use of the Platform in combination with any non-SettleMint products or
services. The exclusions and limitations of liability under this section shall
operate to the benefit of any of SettleMint's affiliates and subcontractors
under these Terms of Service to the same extent such provisions operate to the
benefit of SettleMint.

9.4. To the extent permitted by applicable law, and except in the case of fraud,
willful misconduct or gross negligence by SettleMint, SettleMint's aggregate
liability arising from or relating to these Terms of Service will be limited to
the Fees paid to SettleMint during a period of twelve (12) months prior to the
occurrence giving rise to the liability.

## 10. WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMERS

### 10.1. By SettleMint

10.1.1. General. Except as expressly provided in this section 10 and to the
maximum extent permitted by applicable law, the Platform is provided "AS IS,"
and SettleMint makes no (and hereby disclaims all) other warranties, covenants
or representations, or conditions, whether written, oral, express or implied
including, without limitation, any implied warranties of satisfactory quality,
course of dealing, trade usage or practice, merchantability, suitability,
availability, accessability, title, non-infringement, or fitness for a
particular use or purpose, with respect to the use, misuse, or inability to use
the Platform or any other products or services provided to the User by
SettleMint. SettleMint does not warrant that all errors can be corrected, or
that access to or operation of the Platform shall be uninterrupted, secure, or
error-free.

10.1.2. Network control. The User acknowledges and agrees that there are risks
inherent to transmitting information and storing information on the internet and
through blockchain and that SettleMint is not responsible and cannot be held
liable for any loss of your data. User further acknowledges and agrees that
SettleMint does not own or control any of the underlying software through which
blockchain networks are formed nor, the case being, cryptocurrencies are created
and transacted. In general, the underlying software for blockchain networks
tends to be open source such that anyone can use, copy, modify, and distribute
it. By accessing and using the Platform, you understand and acknowledge that
SettleMint is not responsible for operation of the underlying software and
networks that support blockchain and cryptocurrencies and that SettleMint makes
no guarantee of functionality, security, or availability of such software and
networks.

10.1.3. Forks. The underlying protocols are subject to sudden changes in
operating rules, and third parties may from time to time create a copy of a
digital asset network and implement changes in operating rules or other features
("Forks") that may result in more than one version of a network (each, a "Forked
Network"). You understand and acknowledge that Forked Networks are wholly
outside of the control of SettleMint. In the event of a Fork, you understand and
acknowledge that SettleMint may temporarily suspend services on the Platform and
SettleMint Platform Apps (with or without advance notice to you) while we
determine, at our sole discretion, if and which Forked Network(s) to support.

### 10.2. By User

You represent and warrant to SettleMint that (a) you have the authority to enter
into this binding agreement personally, (b) that you are liable for any User
Data and that this User Data is accurate and truthful and shall not (i) infringe
any Intellectual Property Rights of third parties; (ii) misappropriate any trade
secret; (iii) be deceptive, defamatory, obscene, pornographic or unlawful; (iv)
contain any viruses, worms or other malicious computer programming codes
intended to damage the Platform or data; or (v) otherwise violate the rights of
a third party, (c) that you and all transactions initiated by you will comply
with all rules and regulations applicable to such transaction, (d) you are
solely responsible for the SettleMint Platform Applications created by you on
the Platform and (e) you will not use the Platform, directly or indirectly, for
any fraudulent undertaking or in any manner so as to interfere with the use of
the Platform. If SettleMint determines you have used the Platform for a
fraudulent, unauthorized, illegal or criminal purpose, you hereby authorize
SettleMint to share information about you, your Account or your access to the
Platform with the competent authorities. You agree that any use of the Platform
contrary to or in violation of these representations and warranties shall
constitute unauthorized and improper use of the Platform for which SettleMint
cannot be held liable.

## 11. INDEMNIFICATION

### 11.1. By SettleMint

SettleMint shall defend and indemnify you as specified herein against any
founded and well-substantiated claims brought by third parties to the extent
such claim is based on an infringement of the Intellectual Property Rights of
such third party by the Platform and excluding any claims resulting from (i)
your or any third party's unauthorized use of the Platform, (ii) your or any
third party's use of the SettleMint Platform Apps, (iii) your failure to use the
most recent version of the Platform made available to you, or your failure to
install any corrections or updates to the Platform issued by SettleMint, if
SettleMint indicated that such update or correction was required to prevent a
potential infringement, (iv) Third Parties Services, or (v) your use of the
Platform in combination with any non-SettleMint products or services.

Such indemnity obligation shall be conditional upon the following: (i)
SettleMint is given prompt written notice of any such claim; (ii) SettleMint is
granted sole control of the defense and settlement of such a claim; (iii) upon
SettleMint's request, the User fully cooperates with SettleMint in the defense
and settlement of such a claim, at SettleMint's expense; and (iv) the User makes
no admission as to SettleMint's liability in respect of such a claim, nor does
the User agree to any settlement in respect of such a claim without SettleMint's
prior written consent. Provided these conditions are met, SettleMint shall
indemnify the User for all damages and costs incurred by the User as a result of
such a claim, as awarded by a competent court of final instance, or as agreed to
by SettleMint pursuant to a settlement agreement.

In the event the Platform, in SettleMint's reasonable opinion, is likely to or
become the subject of a third-party infringement claim (as per this section
11.1.), SettleMint shall have the right, at its sole option and expense, to: (i)
modify the (allegedly) infringing part of the Platform so that it becomes
non-infringing while preserving materially equivalent functionalities; (ii)
obtain for the User a license to continue using the Platform in accordance with
these Terms of Service; or (iii) terminate the Terms of Service for that portion
of the Platform which is the subject of such infringement.

The foregoing states the entire liability and obligation of SettleMint and the
sole remedy of the User with respect to any infringement or alleged infringement
of any Intellectual Property Rights caused by the Platform or any part thereof.

### 11.2. By User

You hereby agree to indemnify and hold harmless SettleMint and its current and
future affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives
from each and every demand, claim, loss, liability, or damage of any kind
whatsoever, including reasonable attorney's fees, whether in tort or in
contract, that it or any of them may incur by reason of, or arising out of, any
claim which is made by any third party with respect to (i) any breach or
violation by you of any provisions of these Terms of Service or any other
instructions or policies issued by SettleMint; (ii) any data violating any
Intellectual Property Rights of a third party and (iii) fraud, intentional
misconduct, or gross negligence committed by you.

## 12. PRIVACY STATEMENT

SettleMint recognizes and understands the importance of your privacy and wants
to respect your desire to store and access personal information in a private and
secure environment. Please note that SettleMint has to be considered as the Data
Processor and the User as the Data Controller for the processing of any Personal
Data in accordance with the EU Regulation 2016/679 together with the codes of
practice, codes of conduct, regulatory guidance and standard clauses and other
related legislation resulting from such Regulation, as updated from time to time
(the "General Data Protection Regulation"), via the Platform or any part
thereof. Please note that SettleMint shall only process any Personal Data
relating to you on the documented instructions from the Data Controller and
takes appropriate technical and organizational measures against any unauthorized
or unlawful processing of your Personal Data or its accidental loss, destruction
or any unauthorized access thereto. In the event you as a User request
SettleMint of a copy, correction, deletion of the Personal Data or you want to
restrict or object to the processing activities, you shall inform SettleMint of
such request within two (2) calendar days. SettleMint shall, as Data Processor,
provide the User with full details of such request, objection or restriction of
the User, together with a copy of the Personal Data held by SettleMint. We shall
not use your Personal Data for any other purpose than instructed by the Data
Controller and allowing you to make use of the features of the Platform. For the
purpose of these Terms of Service, "Data Controller", "Data Processor" and
"Personal Data", shall have the meaning given thereto in the Data Protection
Regulation.

## 13. TERMS AND TERMINATION

13.1 The term of this Agreement will commence on the Effective Date and remain
in effect as long as subscription and usage fees are paid, unless terminated
earlier in accordance with section 13.3. The termination of this Agreement can
be requested by you at any time, upon which you will pay the outstanding
balance, after which there will be no further charges.

13.2. SettleMint will not be liable to you for compensation, reimbursement, or
damages in connection with any termination or suspension of the use of the
Platform. Any termination of these Terms of Service does not relieve Users from
any obligations to pay Fees or costs accrued prior to termination and any other
amounts owed by you to SettleMint as provided in these Terms of Service.

13.3. Termination for breach SettleMint may terminate with immediate effect
these Terms of Service and your right to access and use of the Platform (i) if
SettleMint believes or has reasonable grounds to suspect that you are violating
these Terms of Service (including but not limited to any violation of the
Intellectual Property Rights of SettleMint) or any other guidelines or policies
issued by SettleMint or (ii) if you are suspended for non-payment for more than
30 (thirty) days.

13.4. Effects of termination Upon the termination of these Terms of Service for
any reason whatsoever in accordance with the provisions of these Terms of
Service, at the moment of effective termination: (i) you will no longer be
authorized to access or use the Platform; (ii) SettleMint shall sanitize and
destroy the Personal Data related to your Account, including but not limited to
the data on the Platform within thirty (30) calendar days upon termination of
these Terms of Service in a secure way that ensures that all Personal Data is
deleted and unrecoverable. Personal Data that needs to be kept to comply with
relevant legal and regulatory retention requirements may be kept by SettleMint
beyond expiry of the period of thirty (30) calendar days as long as required by
such laws or regulations, and (iii) all rights and obligations of SettleMint or
the User under these Terms of Service shall terminate, except those rights and
obligations under those sections specifically designated in section 14.7. Upon
written request submitted by the User to SettleMint no later than fourteen (14)
calendar days prior to the termination of the agreement, SettleMint shall
provide the User, immediately prior to the sanitization and destruction thereof,
with a readable and usable copy of the Personal Data and/or the systems
containing Personal Data.

13.5. Outstanding Fees. Termination shall not relieve you of the obligation to
pay any fees payable to SettleMint prior to the effective date of termination.
In the event of termination by SettleMint pursuant to Section 13.3, all amounts
payable by you under this Agreement will become immediately due and payable.

## 14. MISCELLANEOUS

### 14.1. Force Majeure

SettleMint shall not be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of
its obligations with regard to the Platform if such delay or failure is due to
causes beyond our control due including but not limited to acts of God, war,
pandemic, strikes or labor disputes, embargoes, government orders,
telecommunications, network, computer, server or Internet downtime, unauthorized
access to SettleMints' information technology systems by third parties or any
other cause beyond the reasonable control of SettleMint (the "Force Majeure
Event"). We shall notify you of the nature of such Force Majeure Event and the
effect on our ability to perform our obligations under these Terms of Service
and how we plan to mitigate the effect of such Force Majeure Event.

### 14.2. Severability

If any provision of these Terms of Service is, for any reason, held to be
invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of these Terms of Service will
remain enforceable and the invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed
modified so that it is valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by
law.

### 14.3. Waiver

Any failure to enforce any provision of the Terms of Service shall not
constitute a waiver thereof or of any other provision.

### 14.4. Assignment

You may not assign or transfer these Terms of Service or any rights or
obligations to any third party. SettleMint shall be free to (i) transfer or
assign (part of) its obligations or rights under the Terms of Service to one of
its affiliates and (ii) to subcontract performance or the support of the
performance of these Terms of Service to its affiliates, to individual
contractors and to third party service providers without prior notification to
the User.

### 14.5. Notices

All notices from SettleMint intended for receipt by you shall be deemed
delivered and effective when sent to the email address provided by you on your
Account. If you change this email address, you must update your email address on
your personal settings page.

### 14.6. Survival

Sections 5, 9, 10, 11 shall survive any termination or expiration of these Terms
of Service.

### 14.7. Governing law and jurisdiction

These Terms of Service shall be exclusively governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of Belgium, without giving effect to any of its
conflict of law principles or rules. The courts and tribunals of Leuven shall
have sole jurisdiction should any dispute arise relating to these Terms of
Service.
