---
title: "Billing"
---

SettleMint follows a **metered pay-as-you-go model**, and charges you **based on
the resources you use**.

Resources are the memory, vCPU, and disk space you need to keep your networks,
nodes, smart contract sets and other services running. Resources are metered
hourly, and billed monthly.

### Info

Billing is done at organization level. Your monthly invoice relates to the
resource usage of all the applications and related services (i.e. networks,
nodes, smart contract sets, etc.) running in the context of that organization.
You will receive a separate invoice for each organization you create.

## Billing status overviews

You can consult the status of your resource usage and the associated costs for
the current month at all times.

Navigate to the **Resource costs** section of your organization, via the
homepage, or via your organization dashboard.

The **overview** shows you the total month-to-date resource cost. This is the
cost for the resource usage of all the applications and related services (i.e.
networks, nodes, smart contract sets, etc.) running in the context of this
organization, for the period starting at the beginning of the current calendar
month and ending at the current date. If the organization has more than one
application, you see a breakdown per application. You can **click the
application name to view more details for that application**.

The **detail** shows a breakdown per service running in this organization.

Moreover, on the homepage and your dashboards you see a clear status of your
month-to-date resource cost.

## Your billing info

Billing information is **related to an organization**. When you create a new
organization, we ask you to provide credit card details, together with company
information to include on your invoice. SettleMint automatically charges the
credit card that you provided.

You can view or update your billing information at any time. Navigate to the
**Billing info** section of your organization, via the homepage, or via your
organization dashboard. Click **Edit billing info**. You will be redirected to
our billing partner Stripe to update the relevant information.

## Your invoices

SettleMint billing cycles are monthly. You will receive an invoice for each
organization you created. Your invoice relates to the resource usage of all the
applications and related services (i.e. networks, nodes, smart contract sets,
etc.) running in the context of this organization.

When we create an invoice, we email it as a PDF to the address associated with
your account. Invoices are also visible on the SettleMint platform. Navigate to
the **Invoices** section of your organization, via the homepage, or via your
organization dashboard.

:::info questions?

If you have any questions related to the use of credits, or for any reason
cannot provide credit card information upon account creation, but still want to
give SettleMint a try, feel free to Feel free to
[contact us](mailto:support@settlemint.com).

:::
