---
slug: september-x-2023
title: September x, 2023
authors: roderik
tags: [release-notes]
draft: true
---

### Expanding High Availability (HA) to On-Premises

We're excited to announce that the High Availability (HA) enhancements previously exclusive to our SaaS platform are now available for our on-premises version as well.

#### High Availability (HA) for Blockchain Nodes with Load Balancers

Managing blockchain nodes with High Availability (HA) has been a challenge due to unique node identities and potential disruptions during outages. In this release, we introduce an application-aware load balancer that ensures your nodes operate with reliability and performance. Whether you're using our SaaS or on-premises version, you can count on this feature to direct your connections to operational nodes, even in consortium chains with 4 validator nodes.

<!-- #### High Availability (HA) for the Graph Middleware

Our Graph Middleware's indexer and query components are now segregated for enhanced HA. This improvement, previously available in our SaaS version, is now extended to our on-premises offering. It allows multiple query node replicas behind a load balancer, ensuring uninterrupted query functions during maintenance and cloud provider disruptions.

Enjoy the benefits of HA across both our SaaS and on-premises solutions, providing unmatched reliability and resilience for your blockchain applications. -->

### Mainnet support

We've made some changes to our public blockchain offerings:

- Replaced Ethereum testnet Goerli with the new Sepolia testnet and added support for the Holesky testnet as well
- Dropped support for Venidium
- Added support for Polygon zkEVM Mainnet and Testnet
- Added support for Arbitrum Mainnet and Testnet
- Added support for Optimism Mainnet and Testnet

#### Polygon zkEVM

Polygon zkEVM is a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum that utilizes zero-knowledge proofs, providing fast and cost-effective smart contract execution while maintaining full compatibility with the Ethereum ecosystem. It enhances Ethereum's scalability and reduces transaction costs, making it an attractive choice for developers and users seeking efficient blockchain interactions.

#### Arbitrum and Optimism

Arbitrum and Optimism are both Layer 2 scaling solutions for Ethereum, utilizing **Optimistic Rollup technology** to enhance transaction speed and cost efficiency

However, there are a few key differences between the two chains:

- **Fraud proof mechanism**: Optimism uses single-round fraud proofs, while Arbitrum uses multi-round fraud proofs. Single-round fraud proofs are faster, but they are also more expensive. Multi-round fraud proofs are slower, but they are also more efficient and cost-effective.
- **EVM compatibility**: Optimism uses the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), while Arbitrum has its own Arbitrum Virtual Machine (AVM). This means that Optimism is only compatible with Ethereum smart contracts that are written in Solidity, while Arbitrum is compatible with all EVM-compiled languages.
- **Withdrawal period**: Optimism has a seven-day withdrawal period, meaning that it takes seven days to withdraw funds from Optimism to Ethereum mainnet. Arbitrum also has a seven-day withdrawal period, but Arbitrum is working on reducing this to two days.
