---
title: "Polygon"
---

Polygon, previously MATIC, was launched in 2017, mainly to tackle Ethereum's
scaling problem. Polygon is a layer 2 commit chain to the Ethereum network, and
acts as an add-on layer to Ethereum. It does not seek to change the original
Ethereum blockchain layer, but solves pain points associated with it, like high
gas fees and slow speeds, without sacrificing on security. Polygon supports all
the existing Ethereum tooling, along with faster and cheaper transactions.

Polygon allows developers to easily launch Ethereum-compatible scaling solutions
and stand-alone blockchains as part of a network of interconnecting blockchains.
Polygon is often referred to as "Ethereum's internet of blockchains", and has
gained wide adoption within the Web3 community. It has gained popularity because
of the great throughput and low gas expenses, and as a consequence the Polygon
ecosystem is growing fast.

Polygon has its own cryptocurrency, called MATIC.

## Mainnet and Testnet

SettleMint supports both the Polygon **Mainnet** and the **Amoy Testnet**.

The Mainnet is the primary public Polygon production blockchain, where
actual-value transactions take place. Each transaction requires payment of a
transaction fee, payable in the native coin MATIC. The Testnet is an instance of
the blockchain to be used for testing and experimentation. There are also coins
used in the Testnet but they have no value, so there is no risk of real fund.

You can consider the Testnet as a prototype and the Mainnet as the official
production blockchain. Or think of this as an analog to production versus
staging servers.

## Consensus mechanism

A consensus mechanism defines the rules for the nodes in a blockchain network to
reach agreement on the current state of the blockchain ledger.

Polygon uses a **Proof of Stake (PoS**) consensus mechanism, giving power to
validate transactions and create new blocks within the network to any actor who
stakes his MATIC token.

More information can be found on the
[official Polygon website](https://docs.polygon.technology/).
