---
title: "Soneium"
---

# The basics

Soneium is a next-generation blockchain ecosystem designed to invoke emotion and
empower creativity. It was founded by Sony Group Corporation, a global
technology leader, and Startale, a Web3 innovator. Soneium stands as a
versatile, general-purpose blockchain ready to serve diverse needs across all
verticals and support users globally.

Soneium's L2 tech stack is based on the OP Stack technology from Optimism, as it
plans to join the Superchain, a network of interconnected blockchains.

Soneium operates as a public Ethereum layer 2 solution that combines the
security and decentralization of Ethereum with enhanced scalability and
user-friendliness. It is integrated into the Superchain network, which uses
Optimism's OP Stack technology to expand Ethereum's capacity. Soneium supports a
wide range of applications, offering a comprehensive development environment
with tools and resources tailored for both developers and users, all while
aiming to make blockchain technology an integral part of everyday life.

## Testnet

Currently, Soneium is in its development phase and only offers a testnet.
SettleMint supports the **Soneium Minato** testnet.

The Testnet is an instance of the blockchain used for testing and
experimentation. The coins used in the Testnet have no real value, mitigating
the risk of losing real funds. This allows developers and users to interact with
the network, test applications, and experiment with features without financial
risk.

You can consider the Testnet as a prototype environment, similar to a staging
server in traditional software development.

## Future Mainnet

While Soneium does not have a mainnet at this time, it is anticipated that a
mainnet will be launched in the future. The mainnet will be the primary public
Soneium production blockchain where real-value transactions will occur. Each
transaction on the future mainnet will likely require payment of a transaction
fee, payable in the native coin SON.

## Consensus mechanism

Soneium employs an efficient consensus algorithm designed for high performance
and security. While specific details about Soneium's consensus mechanism may not
be publicly available, it likely shares some characteristics with other modern
blockchain consensus protocols:

1. **High Throughput**: The consensus mechanism is designed to process a large
   number of transactions quickly.
2. **Fast Finality**: Transactions on the Soneium network are expected to be
   confirmed rapidly.
3. **Scalability**: The system is built to handle increasing transaction volumes
   efficiently.
4. **Byzantine Fault Tolerance**: The protocol aims to achieve consensus even if
   some nodes in the network act maliciously or fail.

The Soneium consensus algorithm is being developed to provide a robust
foundation for decentralized applications, offering a balance of speed,
security, and decentralization.

For the most up-to-date and detailed information about Soneium, including any
announcements about the future mainnet launch, please refer to the official
Soneium documentation or website.
