---
title: "Soneium"
---

<div style={{ display: 'flex', alignItems: 'flex-start', gap: '1.5rem' }}>
  <div style={{ flex: '0 0 15%' }}>
  ![Soneium](../../../img/blockchain-logos/soneium-logo.png)
  </div>
  <div style={{ flex: '1', paddingLeft: '1rem' }}>
    <ul>

Soneium was launched in early 2025 by a team focused on advancing blockchain
interoperability and scalability. It introduces its native cryptocurrency, SON,
designed to power its ecosystem. Soneium operates as a layer 2 solution built
atop Ethereum, emphasizing high throughput, low-cost transactions, and seamless
cross-chain connectivity. It leverages advanced rollup technology to process
transactions off-chain, delivering faster speeds and reduced fees compared to
the Ethereum mainnet.

    </ul>

  </div>
</div>

# The basics

Soneium is fully compatible with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), allowing
developers to port their Ethereum-based dapps effortlessly. Beyond scalability,
Soneium prioritizes decentralization and user empowerment. The network is
secured by a distributed set of validators and governed through a decentralized
autonomous organization (DAO), ensuring no single party holds control over its
operations.

## Mainnet and testnet

SettleMint supports the **Soneium Mainnet** and the **Soneium Testnet**.

The Mainnet serves as Soneiumâ€™s primary public blockchain, where real-value
transactions occur, requiring the SON token for fees. The Testnet, on the other
hand, is a sandbox environment for developers to test and experiment without
financial risk, using valueless test tokens.

You can think of the Testnet as a sandbox for developers and the Mainnet as the
official production network. This setup is similar to the concept of production
versus staging servers in software development.

## Consensus mechanism

Soneium employs a hybrid consensus model combining **optimistic rollups** with a
**coordinator node**. Optimistic rollups assume transaction validity by default,
processing them off-chain for efficiency, while enabling challenges if fraud is
detected. The coordinator node batches transactions and submits them to the
network, though it remains untrusted, any validator can dispute invalid batches.

This design ensures Soneium is scalable, secure, and decentralized. However, it
may involve a withdrawal delay (typically seven days) and relies on a
centralized coordinator for transaction ordering, a trade-off for its
performance gains.

More information can be found on the
[official Soneium website](https://soneium.org/).
